Subject: Confidential (sic)...chew immediately after reading (sic).
From: bill.williams@enron.com
To: scottkuehn@go2netmail.com
cc:
bcc:

You have to love the availability of beautiful lasses for viewing. Things are interesting. Enron is moving right along and we will find out about who I am working for on Friday (our auction should be completed then). Not too much else is new. My place continues to get better (as I slowly furnish it), but Portland continues to be the little sister to Seattle. A couple new bars in town suggest she might be getting closer to puberty but definitely not the woman about town that Seattle is. Morgan told me you may no longer be with Steph? Is this true? (And I hope you are the only one reading this if it is not). If that is the case, well, we can see what we can do about it. As always, I have no plans the next couple weekends, so give me a shout (still have my cell phone at 503-887-3449) if you want to take a trip on down. Your always welcome to crash on my couch...(sorry its all I have, I got rid of the futon). Hope youre doing well.

Word.

-----Original Message-----
From: Scott Kuehn [mailto:scottkuehn@go2netmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, January 08, 2002 2:28 PM
To: Williams III, Bill
Subject: Re: What up?


Awww Jeahh.  It's nice to hear from you.  Ive 
been trying to get in touch with yall for quite 
some time.

Please reply back to this message and let me 
know how "Things" are.  Yes, the question is 
ambiguous, but try to go with it.

In response to "What up?:"

Everything has reached a new status quo. I live 
in Gig Harbor and attend class at UW Tacoma 
(UWT for short).  Class is great and their are 
plenty of beautiful lasses for viewing 
pleasure.  Hopefully I will be out of GH soon.  
I will start looking for jobs in Portland, 
Seattle, and SF (possibly) in Spring.  I have 
not been working on my tan.

I would really like to visit the city of Roses 
in the next few weekends.  What are your 
plans?   I hope everything is well with you.  
Please write back soon.

Buenos Nachos,
Scott  

Sent by Go2net Mail!